[new] Installation and TOBS CLI updates (#1359)
timescale/docs: promscale/installation/kubernetes/helm.md

---
title: Install Promscale on Kubernetes using Helm
excerpt: Install Promscale on a Kubernetes cluster using Helm
product: promscale
keywords: [Kubernetes, analytics, Helm]
tags: [install]
related_pages: 
  - /promscale/:currentVersion:/installation/resource-recomm/
  - /promscale/:currentVersion:/send-data/
---

> import PromscaleConfigurationRecommendations from 'versionContent/_partials/_promscale-configuration-recommendations.mdx';

Reviewer: ```suggestion

import PromscaleConfigurationRecommendations from 'versionContent/_partials/_promscale-configuration-recommendations.mdx';
```

# Install Promscale with Helm charts
You can install Promscale using Helm charts and the Helm charts must be installed
in this order:
1. Install the TimescaleDB Helm chart
1. Install the Promscale Helm chart

## Before you begin

> 1.  Understand the [resource requirements][resource-requirements] for your cluster.
> 1.  [Deploy a Kubernetes Cluster][kubernetes-cluster]. 
> 1.  Install [Helm 3][helm] in your local machine.
> 1.  Install [kubectl][kubectl] in your local environment and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Understand the [resource requirements][resource-requirements] for your cluster.
1.  [Deploy a Kubernetes Cluster][kubernetes-cluster]. 
1.  Install [Helm 3][helm] in your local machine.
1.  Install [kubectl][kubectl] in your local environment and
```

Is order important here? If not, make them bullets.

Author: Yes, I wanted it as a bullet list. Let me rework some steps again.

Author: @Loquacity steps 4 onwards need to be in order so I guess we need to keep it as ordered and I agree that this is not consistent with our other Before you begin that have paras or bullets.

Reviewer: What if we separate it into two lists with their own stem sentences? Could that work?

Author: > What if we separate it into two lists with their own stem sentences? Could that work?

makes sense!!! let me try that.

details about the parameters you can set, see the [Administrator Guide][admin-guide].
Some of the values in the `<MY_VALUES.yaml>` that you need to configure are:
* the values of `replicaCount` to `1` to turn off the high availability mode.
* the [credentials for the superuser, admin, and other users][timescaledb-helm-values-creds]
* [TLS Certificates][timescaledb-helm-values-certs]
* **Optional:** `pgbackrest` [configuration][timescale-backups]

## Install TimescaleDB using a Helm chart
This section provides instructions to deploy TimescaleDB using the
`timescaledb-single` Helm chart.

<procedure>

### Installing TimescaleDB using a Helm chart
1.  Add the TimescaleDB Helm chart repository:
    ```bash
    helm repo add timescale 'https://charts.timescale.com'
    ```
1.  Verify that the repository is up to date:
    ```bash
    helm repo update
    ```
1.  Install the TimescaleDB Helm chart, by replacing `<RELEASE_NAME>` with a name of
    your choice:
    ```bash
    helm install <RELEASE_NAME> -f <MY_VALUES.yaml> charts/timescaledb-single
    ```

</procedure> 

#### Installing the Promscale Helm chart

> <procedure>

Reviewer: Should we have a convention about whether or not procedure titles go inside or outside tags?

Author: hmm good question.

    ```bash
    helm repo update
    ```
1.  Create a database called `tsdb` for Promscale data:
    ```bash
    kubectl exec -i --tty $(kubectl get pod -o name --namespace <NAMESPACE> -l role=master,release=<RELEASE_NAME>) -- psql -U postgres
    CREATE DATABASE tsdb WITH OWNER postgres;
    \q
    ```
1.  Capture the `postgres` user password:
    ```bash
    echo $(kubectl get secret --namespace default tobs-credentials -o jsonpath="{.data.PATRONI_SUPERUSER_PASSWORD}" | base64 --decode)
    ```
1.  Download the Promscale
    [values.yaml][promscale-values-yaml], and update the `connection` section with your TimescaleDB connection details.
    section. Add or edit this section with your TimescaleDB connection details:
    <terminal>

    <tab label='Database URI'>

    ```yaml
    connection:
      uri: postgres://<username>:<password>@<host>:<port>/<dbname>?sslmode=require
    ```

    </tab>

    OR

    <tab label="Connection parameters">

    ```yaml
    connection:
      user: postgres
      password: ""
      host: <RELEASE_NAME>.<NAMESPACE>.svc.cluster.local
      port: 5432
      sslMode: require
      dbName: tsdb
    ```
    </tab>

    </terminal>

> 1.  Install the Promscale Helm chart. Ensure that you replace

Reviewer: ```suggestion

1.  Install the Promscale Helm chart. Make sure that you replace
```

>     `&lt;RELEASE_NAME&gt;` with the name of your choice :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `&lt;RELEASE_NAME&gt;` with the name of your choice:
```

    ```bash
    helm install <RELEASE_NAME> timescale/promscale -f values.yaml
    ```
        
</procedure>

After you have installed Promscale, you can ingest data.
For instructions, see the [send data][send-data] section.

## Database configurations

> <PromscaleConfigurationRecommendations />

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<PromscaleConfigurationRecommendations />
```

---
title: Install Promscale on Kubernetes using Helm
excerpt: Install Promscale on a Kubernetes cluster using Helm
product: promscale
keywords: [Kubernetes, analytics, Helm]
tags: [install]
related_pages: 
  - /promscale/:currentVersion:/installation/resource-recomm/
  - /promscale/:currentVersion:/send-data/
---

import PromscaleConfigurationRecommendations from 'versionContent/_partials/_promscale-configuration-recommendations.mdx';

> 
> # Install Promscale with Helm charts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Install Promscale with Helm charts
```

> You can install Promscale using Helm charts and the Helm charts must be installed
> in this order:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can install Promscale using Helm charts. Helm charts must be installed
in this order:
```

1. Install the TimescaleDB Helm chart
1. Install the Promscale Helm chart

## Before you begin
1.  Understand the [resource requirements][resource-requirements] for your cluster.

> 1.  [Deploy a Kubernetes Cluster][kubernetes-cluster]. 

Reviewer 2: I do not think we should ask users to deploy K8s cluster. The header of this section says Kubernetes and this is part of the Kubernetes drop-down. Specifying Kubernetes explicitly sounds redundant and feels like Promscale needs its own K8s cluster.

1.  Install [Helm 3][helm] in your local machine.
1.  Install [kubectl][kubectl] in your local environment and
    [connect to your cluster][connect-to-cluster].

When you install TimescaleDB on Kubernetes using a Helm chart with the default
`values.yaml` file, the user credentials are randomly generated during
installation. Therefore, the `helm upgrade` command does not rotate the
credentials, because changing the database credentials would break the database.
Instead, it continues to use the credentials generated during `helm install`.

> Hence, create your own `.yaml` file to use parameters other than those specified

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create your own `.yaml` file if you want to use parameters other than those specified
```

> in the default `values.yaml`. You can name this file `<MY_VALUES.yaml>`. For

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the default `values.yaml`. Use the syntax `<MY_VALUES.yaml>` when you name the file. For
```

The original wording made it sound like you were saying the file *must* be named `<MY_VALUES.yaml>`, when it's really replaceable (judging by the format).

details about the parameters you can set, see the [Administrator Guide][admin-guide].

> Some of the values in the `<MY_VALUES.yaml>` that you need to configure are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of the values in the `<MY_VALUES.yaml>` file that you need to configure are:
```

If you *need* to configure them, we probably want to list all, not some 😉 (not sure if that means you need to list more configs, or change the wording here).

> * the values of `replicaCount` to `1` to turn off the high availability mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Set `replicaCount` to `1` to turn off high availability mode.
```

> * the [credentials for the superuser, admin, and other users][timescaledb-helm-values-creds]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Set the credentials for the [super user, admin, and other users][timescaledb-helm-values-creds]
```

Superuser vs super user? Might be a good candidate for the WUG ...

> * [TLS Certificates][timescaledb-helm-values-certs]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Set the location of your [TLS Certificates][timescaledb-helm-values-certs]
```

* **Optional:** `pgbackrest` [configuration][timescale-backups]

## Install TimescaleDB using a Helm chart

> This section provides instructions to deploy TimescaleDB using the
> `timescaledb-single` Helm chart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section shows you how to deploy TimescaleDB using the
`timescaledb-single` Helm chart.
```

<procedure>

### Installing TimescaleDB using a Helm chart
1.  Add the TimescaleDB Helm chart repository:
    ```bash
    helm repo add timescale 'https://charts.timescale.com'
    ```
1.  Verify that the repository is up to date:
    ```bash
    helm repo update
    ```
1.  Install the TimescaleDB Helm chart, by replacing `<RELEASE_NAME>` with a name of
    your choice:
    ```bash
    helm install <RELEASE_NAME> -f <MY_VALUES.yaml> charts/timescaledb-single
    ```

</procedure> 

#### Installing the Promscale Helm chart

<procedure>

1.  Add the TimescaleDB Helm chart repository:
    ```bash
    helm repo add timescale 'https://charts.timescale.com'
    ```
1.  Check that the repository is up to date:
    ```bash
    helm repo update
    ```
1.  Create a database called `tsdb` for Promscale data:
    ```bash

>     kubectl exec -i --tty $(kubectl get pod -o name --namespace <NAMESPACE> -l role=master,release=<RELEASE_NAME>) -- psql -U postgres

Reviewer 2: Drop the mention of `--namespace <NAMESPACE>` the installation cmd doesn't specifiy this. So the installation will be in default namespace.

    CREATE DATABASE tsdb WITH OWNER postgres;
    \q
    ```
1.  Capture the `postgres` user password:
    ```bash

>     echo $(kubectl get secret --namespace default tobs-credentials -o jsonpath="{.data.PATRONI_SUPERUSER_PASSWORD}" | base64 --decode)

Reviewer 2: The default is `default` namepsace. So drop the mention of `--namespace default`

    ```
1.  Download the Promscale
    [values.yaml][promscale-values-yaml], and update the `connection` section with your TimescaleDB connection details.
    section. Add or edit this section with your TimescaleDB connection details:
    <terminal>

    <tab label='Database URI'>

    ```yaml
    connection:
      uri: postgres://<username>:<password>@<host>:<port>/<dbname>?sslmode=require
    ```

    </tab>

    OR

    <tab label="Connection parameters">

    ```yaml
    connection:
      user: postgres
      password: ""
      host: <RELEASE_NAME>.<NAMESPACE>.svc.cluster.local
      port: 5432
      sslMode: require
      dbName: tsdb
    ```
    </tab>

    </terminal>

1.  Install the Promscale Helm chart. Make sure that you replace

>     `&lt;RELEASE_NAME&gt;` with the name of your choice:

Reviewer 2: The rendering of this is failing for some reason. I see it as the same `&lt;RELEASE_NAME&gt;` after rendering.

    ```bash
    helm install <RELEASE_NAME> timescale/promscale -f values.yaml
    ```
        
</procedure>

After you have installed Promscale, you can ingest data.
For instructions, see the [send data][send-data] section.

> ## Database configurations

Reviewer 2: The database configuration section should be just before the installation of the database. Users should configure before deploying the database to avoid updating and restarting the already running database. 

The team is working on automating this, in future this should be done via a script or a tool easily. But for now, manually user needs to set this config before deploying the DB.

Author: Hi @VineethReddy02 Can you please provide the screen grab of configuring the database before deploying using the helm chart?
